# team_vision_idea
The following is a documented idea of Team Vision regarding "Predicting Natural Disaster Challenge" for Microsoft CodeFunDo++ Program

The natural disaster we would be working on is Floods. Floods have a regular occurerence in our country effecting million of lives, their property, etc. Our main aim is to use the data of the past years as well as the current data to predict the occurence of floods in a particular region. Our entire project will be divivded into two parts. First part will be entirely prediction of floods and the second part will be about prevention and minimizing the effects of floods.

Prediction of Floods:
The prediction of floods will be our primary motive and will be decided by a scale which will depend on a database developed by us. According to the scale we can decide what are the chances of the occurence of floods, accordingly the warnings and safety measures will be deployed so that the general public may be ready for it. 
The scale is generated by the database which has the data including the possibility of various factors such as topograpgy of land, ecologically fragile areas, number of dams in a particular areas, yearly rainfall in that particular area, weather forecast data.

Prevention and safety measures:
This will be a three phase process. The determination of the phases is with the help of standard normal probabilities from the scale generated.
If the currently being monitored readings in a particular area crosses a particular point, we would get the message to start Phase 1 (Alerts and warnings to be raised).
When the occurence of flood is confirmed. According to the intensity and approximated effect, actions will be taken, ie we would get the message to start Phase 2. 
When the flood has occured and has exceeded the approximated effect, we would recieve the message to start Phase 3. (Vacating the prone areas and shifting of general public if needed)

The Scale: 
We use the "plotting position method" of the last 35 years of data (return period) to determine if the probability of rainfall to exceed the danger level using standard deviation method and check the following in the standard normal probability table. The return period takes help from the Wibbles's Formula. Our algorithm collects data for 35 years of discharge range, sorts them and ranks them, and then finds probability of the flood to occur using the Binomial Theorem.

Probability of rainfall:  1 - ( P( Z < ( rainfall - normally distributed within) / standard deviation ) * 100 ) . 

Return Period : (T) = ( N + 1 ) / M

According to Binomial Theorem : Flood can Happen : 1 - (1 - p)^n

                              : Flood can't happen : (1 - p)^n = q^n
                              
                             
